public/asset/blog/markdown/blog5BlogUpdate.md, before:

# Starting my Personal Page and Blog (with Update Details)

    HTML, CCS, js, React

# [🏠PERSONAL PAGE](/#)

Powered by Github Page
CSS ~ Change style directly. Hence, reusing more: Only need to change here once instead of multiple times
Navigation Bar: Using class Top ul li a, with utf-8 setting to display emoji.
Main idea: Using table to sort things up, achieving better display on mobile device.

**More update coming soon...**

15 Jan 2025 Update calligraphy font for homepage, dynamic HTML title based on page.

1 Jan 2025 Continuation of ©

15 Dec 2024
Update homepage Contact section with a compact layout. 
Collapse mobile sidebar by default.

20 Nov 2024
Update homepage layout and publication and academic research section.
Merge Publication and Experience sections into the Research section.

![Home_Nov2024](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Nov2024.png "Home Page v2 Nov 24")

15 Mar 2024
Update navigation bar active based on position. [Home_Mar2024](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Mar2024.png "Home Page v2 Mar 24")
Update new theme for sitemap (sidebar) and Logos (compatible for dark theme).
Add a separate Contact Page, highlighting main profile and contact details.

1 Jan 2024
Continuation of ©.
[Home_Dec2023](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Dec2023.png "Home Page v2 Dec 23")

12 Nov 2023
Add more sub-page for Projects, awards and experience.
Update home page with left navigation bar and brand-new layout.
Differentiate mobile and PC view of the Main page by checking screen width in js.
[Home_Nov2023](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Nov2023.png "Home Page v2 Nov 23")

6 Mar 2023
Adjust to mobile view: CSS add "media only screen and (max-width: 800px)" condition.
[Mobile_Home_Apr2023](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Mobile_Home_Apr2023.png "Mobile View of Home Page")

Code Reconstruction
-------------------

16 Feb 2023
Using React component-based architecture, using Routes to deliver new page.

15 Feb 2023
Reconstructing the whole web structure using React App.
Adding a 404 redirect to home page.

1 Feb 2023
Using React together with React to construct functions, thus shortening the lines of code and maintenance cost.
[React_js Setup](asset/photo/Assignment/5/React_js.png "React_js")

\--- Personal Page 2022 ---
[Home 2022](asset/photo/Assignment/5/page.png "Personal Page 2022")

[🏠PERSONAL PAGE](/#)

# [📝 Blogs3.0 PLATFORM Artistic, Better, Convenient](/#/Blog_Sorting)

Originally written in Markdown(.md).
Convert to HTML via React-Markdown or [Showdown](https://showdownjs.com/).
Reuse: the same part in the HTML / using JavaScript to encapsulate the header and footer
\---Version: Blogs3.0 Platform---
\---Music: Town of Windmill---

**More update coming soon...**

Feb 2025
Fix the main Blog page's table sorting feature via React~

Jan 2025
No news is good news: update previous and NEXT blog functionality.

Dec 2023
Update the layout and footer of the Blog main page.

17 Apr 2023
Introduce sidebar in Ref📚 for classification.
15 Apr 2023
Introduce a separate Ref📚 module in Blog system.
Change the format of Update Log, using chronological order now.

11 Apr 2023
Blogs_3.0_ Platform: This patch updates navigation bar in Blogs_3.0_ Platform, adding ⚙️Settings🛠️.
⚙️Settings🛠️ supports changing background color, controlling music.

5 Apr 2023
Updates blog UI system with better visual effect.
[Blog3.0](asset/photo/Assignment/5/blog3.0.png "Blog3.0")

7 Apr 2023
Blogs_3.0_ Platform: This patch updates navigation bar UI design and music button.
Further update on music system: enable play and pause toggle design.
Enable music on main page by redirecting to '/#' instead of '/'. ( Music can't continue on main website. -- Fixed)

9 Apr 2023
Adding the feature of seeing the state of music display state.
Removing legacy version (2022.9.18 Music for Blog: Using frame and iframe to support Music autoplay and looping )

**Appendix: Heuristic Evaluation of the Design**

1. Visibility of system statusDesigns should keep users informed about what is going on, through appropriate, timely feedback.use progress bars / indicators
2. Match between system and real worldThe design should speak the users' language. Use words, phrases, and concepts familiar to the user, rather than internal jargon.
3. User control and freedomUsers often perform actions by mistake. They need a clearly marked "emergency exit" to leave the unwanted action.
4. Consistency and standardsUsers should not have to wonder whether different words, situations, or actions mean the same thing. Follow platform conventions.
5. Error preventionGood error messages are important, but the best designs carefully prevent problems from occurring in the first place.
6. Recognition rather than recallMinimize the user's memory load by making elements, actions, and options visible. Avoid making users remember information.
7. Flexibility and efficiency of useShortcuts - hidden from novice users - may speed up the interaction for the expert user such that the design can cater to both inexperienced and experienced users. Allow users to tailor frequent actions.
8. Aesthetic and minimalist designInterfaces should not contain information which is irrelevant. Every extra unit of information in an interface competes with the relevant units of information.
9. Help users recognize and recover from errorsError messages should be expressed in plain language (no error codes), precisely indicate the problem, and constructively suggest a solution.
10. Help and documentation
    It’s best if the design doesn’t need any additional explanation. However, it may be necessary to provide documentation to help users complete their tasks.

## Legacy Display

\--- Blog3.0 Design --- [Mar23.png](asset/photo/Assignment/5/BlogMar23.png "Blog3.0_Mar23")

\--- Blog2.0 Design --- [html](/asset/blog/blog_directory_Storting.html) | [png](asset/photo/Assignment/5/blog2.0.png "Blog2.0")

Updated new feature: ⬇ _Sort Data on Header Click_
2022.9.27
      Using JavaScript to support table display and sorting
(2023.2.16 Table sorting is no longer supported in react version. )

\--- Blog1.0 Design --- [html](/asset/blog/blog_directory.html) | [png](asset/photo/Assignment/5/blog.png "Blog1.0")

Commit message:

index top merged for blog and main website

public/asset/blog/markdown/blog5BlogUpdate.md, after:

# Starting my Personal Page and Blog (with Update Details)

    HTML, CCS, js, React

# [🏠PERSONAL PAGE](/#)

Powered by Github Page
CSS ~ Change style directly. Hence, reusing more: Only need to change here once instead of multiple times
Navigation Bar: Using class Top ul li a, with utf-8 setting to display emoji.
Main idea: Using table to sort things up, achieving better display on mobile device.

**More update coming soon...**

6 Mar 2025 Tidy the homepage and add the Bio. to the navigation bar.

![Home_Mar2025](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Mar2025.png "Home Page Mar 25")


15 Jan 2025 Update calligraphy font for homepage, dynamic HTML title based on page.

1 Jan 2025 Continuation of ©

15 Dec 2024
Update homepage Contact section with a compact layout. 
Collapse mobile sidebar by default.

20 Nov 2024
Update homepage layout and publication and academic research section.
Merge Publication and Experience sections into the Research section.

[Home_Nov2024](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Nov2024.png "Home Page v2 Nov 24")

15 Mar 2024
Update navigation bar active based on position. [Home_Mar2024](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Mar2024.png "Home Page v2 Mar 24")
Update new theme for sitemap (sidebar) and Logos (compatible for dark theme).
Add a separate Contact Page, highlighting main profile and contact details.

1 Jan 2024
Continuation of ©.
[Home_Dec2023](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Dec2023.png "Home Page v2 Dec 23")

12 Nov 2023
Add more sub-page for Projects, awards and experience.
Update home page with left navigation bar and brand-new layout.
Differentiate mobile and PC view of the Main page by checking screen width in js.
[Home_Nov2023](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Home_Nov2023.png "Home Page v2 Nov 23")

6 Mar 2023
Adjust to mobile view: CSS add "media only screen and (max-width: 800px)" condition.
[Mobile_Home_Apr2023](asset/photo/Assignment/5/Mobile_Home_Apr2023.png "Mobile View of Home Page")

Code Reconstruction
-------------------

16 Feb 2023
Using React component-based architecture, using Routes to deliver new page.

15 Feb 2023
Reconstructing the whole web structure using React App.
Adding a 404 redirect to home page.

1 Feb 2023
Using React together with React to construct functions, thus shortening the lines of code and maintenance cost.
[React_js Setup](asset/photo/Assignment/5/React_js.png "React_js")

\--- Personal Page 2022 ---
[Home 2022](asset/photo/Assignment/5/page.png "Personal Page 2022")

[🏠PERSONAL PAGE](/#)

# [📝 Blogs3.0 PLATFORM Artistic, Better, Convenient](/#/Blog_Sorting)

Originally written in Markdown(.md).
Convert to HTML via React-Markdown or [Showdown](https://showdownjs.com/).
Reuse: the same part in the HTML / using JavaScript to encapsulate the header and footer
\---Version: Blogs3.0 Platform---
\---Music: Town of Windmill---

**More update coming soon...**

Mar 2025
Merge the navigation bars of Main website and Blog system into a single function, for better maintainability.

Feb 2025
Fix the main Blog page's table sorting feature via React~

Jan 2025
No news is good news: update previous and NEXT blog functionality.

Dec 2023
Update the layout and footer of the Blog main page.

17 Apr 2023
Introduce sidebar in Ref📚 for classification.
15 Apr 2023
Introduce a separate Ref📚 module in Blog system.
Change the format of Update Log, using chronological order now.

11 Apr 2023
Blogs_3.0_ Platform: This patch updates navigation bar in Blogs_3.0_ Platform, adding ⚙️Settings🛠️.
⚙️Settings🛠️ supports changing background color, controlling music.

5 Apr 2023
Updates blog UI system with better visual effect.
[Blog3.0](asset/photo/Assignment/5/blog3.0.png "Blog3.0")

7 Apr 2023
Blogs_3.0_ Platform: This patch updates navigation bar UI design and music button.
Further update on music system: enable play and pause toggle design.
Enable music on main page by redirecting to '/#' instead of '/'. ( Music can't continue on main website. -- Fixed)

9 Apr 2023
Adding the feature of seeing the state of music display state.
Removing legacy version (2022.9.18 Music for Blog: Using frame and iframe to support Music autoplay and looping )

**Appendix: Heuristic Evaluation of the Design**

1. Visibility of system statusDesigns should keep users informed about what is going on, through appropriate, timely feedback.use progress bars / indicators
2. Match between system and real worldThe design should speak the users' language. Use words, phrases, and concepts familiar to the user, rather than internal jargon.
3. User control and freedomUsers often perform actions by mistake. They need a clearly marked "emergency exit" to leave the unwanted action.
4. Consistency and standardsUsers should not have to wonder whether different words, situations, or actions mean the same thing. Follow platform conventions.
5. Error preventionGood error messages are important, but the best designs carefully prevent problems from occurring in the first place.
6. Recognition rather than recallMinimize the user's memory load by making elements, actions, and options visible. Avoid making users remember information.
7. Flexibility and efficiency of useShortcuts - hidden from novice users - may speed up the interaction for the expert user such that the design can cater to both inexperienced and experienced users. Allow users to tailor frequent actions.
8. Aesthetic and minimalist designInterfaces should not contain information which is irrelevant. Every extra unit of information in an interface competes with the relevant units of information.
9. Help users recognize and recover from errorsError messages should be expressed in plain language (no error codes), precisely indicate the problem, and constructively suggest a solution.
10. Help and documentation
    It’s best if the design doesn’t need any additional explanation. However, it may be necessary to provide documentation to help users complete their tasks.

## Legacy Display

\--- Blog3.0 Design --- [Mar23.png](asset/photo/Assignment/5/BlogMar23.png "Blog3.0_Mar23")

\--- Blog2.0 Design --- [html](/asset/blog/blog_directory_Storting.html) | [png](asset/photo/Assignment/5/blog2.0.png "Blog2.0")

Updated new feature: ⬇ _Sort Data on Header Click_
2022.9.27
      Using JavaScript to support table display and sorting
(2023.2.16 Table sorting is no longer supported in react version. )

\--- Blog1.0 Design --- [html](/asset/blog/blog_directory.html) | [png](asset/photo/Assignment/5/blog.png "Blog1.0")
